---
layout: page
title: Carissa Ying's Project Portfolio Page
---


## Project: EzManage

EzManage - EzManage is a desktop application used for the management of a tuition centre's sessions, students and tutors. The user interacts with it using a CLI, and it has a GUI created with JavaFX. It is written in Java, and has about 10 kLoC.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **New Feature**: Added the ability to add a session. [\#27](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/27))
  * What it does: Allows the user to add a new session to EzManage. 
  * Justification: This feature improves the product significantly because a person may drop out of a session at any time and the app should give the user a convenient way to update the session assignment to reflect this.
  * Highlights: This enhancement modified the structure of the original AddressBook to be a solution for the problem domain tackled by EzManage. It affects commands to be added in future and required an in-depth analysis of design alternatives. It also required writing of additional tests to ensure the sessions feature worked before passing the product on to other members.
  * Credits: AddressBook Level 3

* **New Feature**: Added the ability to unassign a person from a session. (Pull Request [\#67](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/67))
  * What it does: Allows the user to unassign a person from a session in EzManage.
  * Justification: This feature improves the product significantly because a person may drop out of a session at any time and the app should give the user a convenient way to update the session assignment to reflect this.
  * Highlights: This enhancement affects existing commands and commands to be added in future. It required an in-depth analysis of design alternatives.
  * Credits: AddressBook Level 3
  
* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://nus-cs2103-ay2021s2.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=true&checkedFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code~other&since=&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&tabAuthor=car155&tabRepo=AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code&authorshipIsBinaryFileTypeChecked=false)

* **Project management**:
  * Managed releases `v1.1` - `v1.4` (4 releases) on GitHub

* **Enhancements to existing features**:
  * Added more checks and defensive coding for the `assign` feature (Pull Request [\#67](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/67))
  * Changed product name and icon (Pull Request [\#197](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/197))

* **Documentation**:
  * User Guide:
    * Added documentation for the features `add_session` and `unassign` (Pull Request [\#77](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/77))
  * Developer Guide:
    * Added implementation details of the `add_session` and `unassign` features. (Pull Request [\#80](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103-W16-4/tp/pull/80))

* **Community**:
  * Reported bugs and suggestions for other teams in the PE Dry Run.
