docs/team/juhaer.md, before:

---
layout: page title: Juhaer's Project Portfolio Page
---

## Project: TimeForWheels

TimeForWheels is an app for delivery drivers to manage their orders efficiently. It is optimized for use via a Command
Line Interface while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface(GUI). Overall, TimeForWheels aims to
increase work productivity for delivery drivers by simplifying the delivery management and planning process.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://github.com/pasha-292/tp)

* **Project management**:
    * Managed releases `v1.1` - `v1.4` (3 releases) on GitHub

* **Enhancement to existing features**:

1. Update the find command to enable searching by telephone number and address.(
   PR: [#35](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/35))
2. Add Date class to the project to enable making use of delivery dates.(
   PR: [#35](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/35))
3. Integrate the date class to the Customer class and make the relevant alterations to files.(
   PR: [#47](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/47))
4. Update the find command to enable searching for customer by using the date.(
   PR: [#47](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/47))
5. Format the date output to make it more in line with the project.(
   PR: [#48](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/48))

Commit message:

Enter contributions to user guide

docs/team/juhaer.md, after:

---
layout: page title: Juhaer's Project Portfolio Page
---

## Project: TimeForWheels

TimeForWheels is an app for delivery drivers to manage their orders efficiently. It is optimized for use via a Command
Line Interface while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface(GUI). Overall, TimeForWheels aims to
increase work productivity for delivery drivers by simplifying the delivery management and planning process.

Given below are my contributions to the project.

* **Code contributed**: [RepoSense link](https://github.com/pasha-292/tp)

* **Project management**:
    * Managed releases `v1.1` - `v1.4` (3 releases) on GitHub

* **Enhancement to existing features**:
1. Update the end messages for some of the commands.(
   PR: [#27](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/27))
2. Update the find command to enable searching by telephone number and address.(
   PR: [#35](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/35))
3. Add Date class to the project to enable making use of delivery dates.(
   PR: [#35](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/35))
4. Integrate the date class to the Customer class and make the relevant alterations to files.(
   PR: [#47](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/47))
5. Update the find command to enable searching for customer by using the date.(
   PR: [#47](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/47))
6. Format the date output to make it more in line with the project.(
   PR: [#48](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/48))

* **Enhancement to existing features**:
1. Update User Guide, by adding features description and enhance existing info.(
   PR: [#16](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2103T-W10-3/tp/pull/16))
